DEVELOPER.md, before:

# Developers

Please also read (CONTRIBUTING.md)[CONTRIBUTING.md].

## .editorconfig

Please make sure your editor uses our `.editorconfig` file. It contains rules about our coding styles.

## Docker

To improve local development we have a Docker container on board. You can find it in `/docker`.

If you are on `Linux`, go to your terminal, switch to the `docker` folder and run:

> make

This will build and start the docker container.
After it started, you will be logged in automatically.

Afterwards you can run further commands on the CLI, like `composer update` or PHPUnit test suite.

## Tests

Our test related files are located in `test` folder. Tests are written using PHPUnit.

Make sure you ran `composer update`, if you want to execute the test suite.

To run all tests, open your terminal and run:

> vendor/bin/phpunit

## Important notes

* Don't rely on our test API, like functions or classes! They are only for internal use. If you want certain functionality be part of the public API, please create an issue.

Commit message:

Run tests in Windows environment (Windows Server 2019) (#8)
* extended tests workflow with windows tests

* attempt to fix some tests in Windows environments

* added var_dump to Response::fromString

* further attempts to counter wrong line endings in win

* try simpler content to check; restored readFixture

* windows fixes for Graph- and TurtleTest

* small fix and a revert

* reverted some code; added tests to linux group (ignored on windows)

changed a few tests to run on both OS

* added testExecCommandPipeLsWithDir to linux group

fails on windows with:

> proc_open(): CreateProcess failed, error code - 267

because /bin is not a valid windows directory

* extended documentation

* simplified test testParseFileRelativeUri

* removed now obsolete isLinux

DEVELOPER.md, after:

# Developers

Please also read (CONTRIBUTING.md)[CONTRIBUTING.md].

## .editorconfig

Please make sure your editor uses our `.editorconfig` file. It contains rules about our coding styles.

## Docker

To improve local development we have a Docker container on board. You can find it in `/docker`.

If you are on `Linux`, go to your terminal, switch to the `docker` folder and run:

> make

This will build and start the docker container.
After it started, you will be logged in automatically.

Afterwards you can run further commands on the CLI, like `composer update` or PHPUnit test suite.

## Tests

Our test related files are located in `test` folder. Tests are written using PHPUnit.

Make sure you ran `composer update`, if you want to execute the test suite.

To run all tests, open your terminal and run:

> vendor/bin/phpunit

[Here](https://github.com/sweetrdf/easyrdf/actions/workflows/Tests.yml) you can find our latest test results online.

### Linux and Windows tests

Our tests run in Linux and Windows environment.
Please check our [workflow file](.github/workflows/Tests.yml) for more information.

In some cases tests fail because they are dependent on Linux-related functionality, like line endings.
For now `@group linux` is used to mark those tests and not run them in Windows.
But in the future all tests have to be independend from underlying operating system.

## Important notes

* Don't rely on our test API, like functions or classes! They are only for internal use. If you want certain functionality be part of the public API, please create an issue.
